# Smart-Agricultural-IoT-AI-Assistant
This system was developed utilising a Raspberry Pi 5 client, which was embedded with various IoT sensors. The sensor readings were transferred in real-time to a local LLM assistant for decision making and advice on optimal crop growing conditions.

# Artificial Intelligence-Driven Smart Agricultural Internet of Things Monitoring System
## Problem Description
### 1. Problem Background
Agriculture faces the critical challenge of maximising crop yields, while utilising limited resources efficiently. These challenges are particularly evident in developing countries such as South Africa. Furthermore, the consequences of climate change, such as drastic temperature changes and irregular rainfall, reinforces the need for more resilient farming methods. Traditional farming methods rely on periodic manual checks which have the potential to inaccurately detect rapid changes in crop water levels, temperature, humidity, or pest activity. In order to address the aforementioned issues, a smart agriculture system is proposed, which utilises Internet of Things (IoT) sensors for continuous monitoring and real-time data analytics, ultimately optimising crop-growing conditions. Thereafter, artificial intelligence (AI) techniques will be utilised for IoT data analysis and decision recommendations. Therefore, the aforementioned solution can be applied to different conditions beyond the local South African context, remaining effective in different types of rural areas with unreliable internet connectivity and limited access to powerful computing hardware.

### 2. Societal Benefits and Novelty
Conventional sensor systems are known to only trigger simple alerts. In contrast, this system is proposed to utilise advanced AI models, namely large language models (LLMs), to interpret IoT sensor data and communicate the insights accordingly. Farmers can interact with the system through natural language, by asking questions and consequently receiving answers or recommendations based on the crops’ IoT sensor data. Therefore, the aforementioned LLM, makes the interaction process more intuitive for farmers who may not have extensive Information Technology (IT) knowledge. Furthermore, the closed peer-to-peer (P2P) network of this system aims to provide a crucial benefit for rural, resource-constrained environments, with its ability to locally run AI processing tasks on the Central Processing Unit (CPU) of the farm’s server, without the requirement of an internet connection. Moreover, the aforementioned limited hardware requirements, enable this system to be more accessible to a wide variety of different farms who may not possess the financial resources to afford expensive Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) hardware. Therefore, this intelligent IoT automation leads to more efficient water use, timely interventions, and improved crop yields for farmers in a wide variety of different climates.

### 3. Conclusion
Ultimately, an AI-driven smart agricultural IoT monitoring system is proposed. This system will utilise a distributed Linux architecture, with IoT sensors and AI services, in order to provide farmers with real-time monitoring of their crops. Therefore, through the utilisation of limited hardware requirements, secure local networking, and intuitive user interfaces for farmers, this system aims to ensure that agricultural resources are utilised efficiently, ultimately improving crop yield in a wide variety of different agricultural environments.